1 
www.handsontec.com 
 
 
 
Handson Technology 
User Guide 
E18-D80NK Adjustable Infra-Red (IR) Proximity Sensor 
 
E18-D80NK Infrared Obstacle Avoidance Sensor is a low-cost IR Proximity Sensor with an adjustable 
range of 3cm to 80cm. E18-D80 IR Sensor is widely used in robots to avoid obstacles, industrial assembly 
lines, Reverse Car Parking, and many other automation applications. The detection range can be adjusted 
according to the application using the multi-turn pot-meter that is located at the back of the sensor. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SKU: SSR1069 
Brief Data: 
 
? Operating Voltage: 5Vdc. 
? Current consumption: > (25~100)mA. 
? Dimension: ?17mm (diameter) x 45mm (length). 
? Cable length: 45cm. 
? Detection of objects: Transparent or Opaque. 
? Diffuse reflective type. 
? Sensing range: 3cm to 80cm (depends on obstacle surface). 
? NPN output (normally high). 
? Environment temperature: -25 ?C ~ 55 ?C. 
? Weight: 42g. 
 
 
 

2 
www.handsontec.com 
 
 
Mechanical Dimension: 
Unit: mm 
 
 
Pin Functional Diagram: 
 
 
 
 
 
 

3 
www.handsontec.com 
 
 
Schematic Diagram: 
 
 
 
 
Web Resources: 
? 
https://create.arduino.cc/projecthub/ashish_cd/interfacing-e18-d80nk-ir-proximity-sensor-with-arduino-
a4bbd0 
? 
https://robojax.com/learn/arduino/?vid=robojax-E18-D80NK-IR-Switch 
 
 
 
 
 
 

4 
www.handsontec.com 
 
 
 
Handsontec.com 
We have the parts for your ideas 
 
HandsOn Technology provides a multimedia and interactive platform for 
everyone interested in electronics. From beginner to diehard, from student 
to lecturer. Information, education, inspiration and entertainment. Analog 
and digital, practical and theoretical; software and hardware.  
 
 
HandsOn Technology support Open Source Hardware (OSHW) 
Development Platform. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Learn : Design : Share 
 
 
www.handsontec.com 
 
 
 

5 
www.handsontec.com 
 
 
The Face behind our product quality? 
In a world of constant change and continuous technological development, a new or replacement 
product is never far away ? and they all need to be tested. 
Many vendors simply import and sell wihtout checks and this cannot be the ultimate interests of 
anyone, particularly the customer. Every part sell on Handsotec is fully tested. So when buying from 
Handsontec products range, you can be confident you?re getting outstanding quality and value. 
 
We keep adding the new parts so that you can get rolling on your next project. 
 
Breakout Boards & Modules 
 
Connectors 
Electro-Mechanical Parts 
 
Engineering Material 
 
Mechanical Hardware 
 
P 
Electronics Components 
Power Supply 
Arduino Board & Shield 
 
Tools & Accessory 
 
 
